while the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is about to hold a news
conference in Tel Aviv as we've been
reporting he's been trying to secure a
ceasefire agreement with Israel
following a proposal by Hamas let's
listen ining hostages home um I've met
with families of the hostages multiple
times uh during prior visits as well as
in Washington and I expect to see them
again
tomorrow
the sheer
Agony not knowing
the fate of your loved
one um it's almost
unimaginable and I know that that pain
is almost
unbearable so we have been intensely
focused from day one on getting the
hostages all the hostages back with
their families where they belong and we
will keep that
Focus until we get them
back uh we had an opportunity today to
discuss with the Israeli government the
response that Hamas sent last night to
the proposal that the United States
cutter and Egypt had put together uh to
bring the remaining hostages home and
extend the humanitarian pause um what I
can tell you about these discussions is
that while there are some clear
non-starters in hamas's response uh we
do think it creates space for agreement
to be reached and we will work at that
that
relentlessly until we get
there uh we had uh extensive discussions
with the Prime Minister and National
Security leaders on the status of the
military campaign uh to defeat Hamas and
on the progress toward achieving the
fundamental objective of ensuring that
October 7th never happens again at the
same time we're continuing to work
closely with Israel and Lebanon on
diplomatic efforts to deescalate
tensions on Israel's northern border so
that amilies can return to their homes
both in Northern Israel and in southern
Lebanon and live in peace and
security we also discussed the
imperative of maximizing civilian
protection and humanitarian Aid to
address the ongoing suffering of
Palestinian civilians in
Gaza nearly two million people have been
displaced from their homes hundreds of
thousands are experiencing acute
hunger most have lost someone that they
love
and day after day more people are
killed on all of my previous visits here
and pretty much every day in between we
have pressed Israel in concrete ways to
strengthen civilian protection to get
more assistance to those who need it and
over the past four months Israel has
taken to do just that starting the flow
of Aid doubling it during the first
pause for hos releases opening the North
and South corridors in Gaza so that
people could move out of immediate
Harm's Way through these corridors with
four hours pause every day 3 hours
notice opening Kem
Shalom starting the flow of assistance
from Jordan establishing deconfliction
mechanisms for humanitarian
sites as a result today more assistance
than ever is moving into Gaza from more
places than it many times since October
7th as the largest donor of humanitarian
Aid to the
Palestinians the United States has
helped provide much of that assistance
including funding 990,000 metric tons of
flour delivered from ashot Port that's
enough to provide bread for 1.4 million
people for the next five months uh a un
team began its mission to the north to
assess conditions for the civilians who
are still there as well as what needs to
be done to allow displacement
Palestinians to return back home to the
north and yet as I said to the Prime
Minister and to other Israeli officials
today the daily toll that its military
operations continue to take on in
innocent civilians remains too
high in our discussions today
highlighted some key steps that Israel
should take to ensure that more Aid
reaches more people in Gaza Israel
should open AR res so do assistance can
flow to Northern Gaza where as I said
hundreds of thousands of people are
struggling to survive under dire
conditions it should expedite the flow
of humanitarian assistance from
Jordan it should strengthen
deconfliction and improve coordination
with the humanitarian
providers and Israel must ensure that
the delivery of life-saving assistance
to Gaza is not blocked for any reason by
anyone we urge Israel to do more to help
civilians knowing full
well that it faces an enemy that would
never hold itself to those standards an
enemy that cynically embeds itself among
men women and children and fires Rockets
from hospitals from schools from mosques
from residential buildings an enemy
whose leaders surround themselves with
hostages an enemy that has declared
publicly its goal to kill as many
innocent and civilians as he can simply
because they're Jews and to wipe Israel
off the
map that's why we've made clear that
Israel is fully justified in confronting
Hamas and other terrorist
organizations and that's why the United
States has done more than any other
country to support Israel's right to
ensure that October 7th never happens
again Israelis were dehumanized in the
most horrific way on October 7th
the hostages have been dehumanized every
day
since but that cannot be a license to
dehumanize
others the overwhelming majority of
people in Gaza had nothing to do with
the attacks of October 7th and the
families in Gaza whose survival depends
on deliveries of aid from Israel are
just like our
families their mothers and fathers Sons
and Daughters want to earn a decent
living send their kids to
school have a normal
life that's who they are that's what
they
want and we
cannot we must not lose sight of that we
cannot we must not lose sight of our
common
Humanity we remain determined as well to
pursue a diplomatic path to a just and
Lasting peace and security for all in
the region
and notably for
Israel and that diplomatic path
continues to come into ever sharper
Focus as I travel throughout the region
and talk to all of our friends and
partners an Israel that's fully
integrated into the
region with normal relations with key
countries including Saudi Arabia with
firm guarantees for its security
alongside a
concrete time bound irreversible path to
a Palestinian State living side by side
in peace and security with Israel with
the necessary security
assurances over the course of this trip
we discussed both the substance and
sequence of steps that all would need to
take to make this path
real that includes steps by the
Palestinian Authority to reform and
Revitalize
itself and I reaffirmed the imperative
of those steps in my meeting today with
president abas
Chief among them improving governance
increasing accountability to the
Palestinian people reforms that the
Palestinian Authority has committed to
make in a recently announced reform
package and that we urge it to implement
swiftly now we can see so many of the
actors in the region lining up to move
down the path that I just
described but some are
not some are trying to sabotage that
path Iran and its
proxies
continue to escalate and expand the
cycle of violence that we all want to
break we'll continue to defend our
people will continue to defend our
interests in the face of such attacks
not to fuel escalation but to prevent
it finally in my discussions today with
the Prime Minister and Senior officials
I also raised our profound concerns
about actions and rhetoric including
from government officials that inflame
tensions that undercut International
support and place greater strains on
Israel's
security the people of Israel have
sacrificed enormously to forge this
nation and to defend
it they'll Tim decide the right path to
take and whether they're ready to make
difficult choices necessary to realize
vision of the long elusive Prospect of
true peace and true
security as a true friend of Israel as
the country that has always been first
to its side whether that was May 14th
1948 or October 7th
2023 we will always offer our best
advice on the choices before this
country especially the ones that matter
the most thank you happy to take some
questions the first question goes to
zolan K young with the New York
Times uh thank you Mr secretary for the
question uh just have a couple for you
here um uh I know that you said there's
still room for agreement in terms of the
uh negotiations over the release of
hostages uh but the Prime Minister after
you spoke with him uh pretty bluntly
dismissed hamas's response um describing
it even as ludicrous I just want to
clarify is this response or these
negotiations uh DOA at this point um and
what's specifically did the Prime
Minister uh object to in that response
uh also the Prime Minister shortly after
you met with him uh made clear that
Israeli troops will be moving deeper
into Rafa uh will the United States
simply stand by um as this action is
pursued um even with 1 million
Palestinians more than a million
Palestinians uh being held are in Rafa
seemingly with nowhere to go uh and if I
may Congress is now moving ahead with a
bill that would pair Aid for Ukraine
with aid for Israel would the
administration endorse any potential
package that once again prohibits UNR
funding thank
you that's impressive now I'm I'm taking
it that that includes the questions of
all of your colleagues as well is that
right I I don't think so couldn't do
that to
them all right um starting with the with
the first part look as I said um we've
looked very carefully at what came back
from Hamas and there are clearly
non-starters in uh in what it uh what
it's put forward um but we also see
space in uh what came back uh to pursue
negotiations to see if we can get to uh
to an agreement and that's what we
intend to do um and I'm not going to
speak for uh Israel or anyone else
involved but uh again we we we believe
the space is there and we believe that
we should pursue it um
with regard to
Rafa look as I said uh before Israel has
the responsibility has the
obligation to do everything possible to
ensure that civilians are protected uh
and that they get the assistance they
need in the course of this conflict
um any military campaign military
operation that Israel undertakes needs
to put civilians first and foremost in
mind
um and I suggested again some ways to do
that um and that's especially true in
the case of Rafa where there are
somewhere between 1.2 and 1.4 million
people many of them displaced from other
parts of U of Gaza so uh we want to make
sure again that in anything that's uh
that's done in any military
operations
the situation for civilians is first and
foremost in mind and that the necessary
steps are taken to make sure that
they're protected and they have the
assistance they
need you suggested some ways to do that
well I just went through I just went
through a number of things that uh we
urge Israel to do now on the uh building
on what it's already done in terms of
both humanitarian assistance and
civilian protection um and as I said
with in the case of of RAF itself uh
that's extremely important because it
has such a dense population including
many people who've been displaced from
other parts of of Gaza um and on uh on
unra look the we were deeply concerned
by the allegations that were made about
the participation or involvement of some
of its employees in the in October 7th
and it's imperative that as the UN has
said it's doing that there be a thorough
inv investigation that there be clear
accountability and that there be clear
measures put in place to make sure that
um this can't happen again this the
Personnel working for it uh were not in
any way involved in terrorism or the
events of October 7th
um we know
that the work that under performs the
functions that it performs have to be
preserved because
uh so many lives are depending on it uh
and so going forward we're going to look
to the actions that are taken um and as
I said it's imperative the functions be
preserved it sounds like the
administration then would potentially
support an aid package that still
prohibited funding for un I'm not going
to get ahead of our views on
hypothetical pieces of legislation
although there was already an aid
package that the the administration
endorsed that prohibited that funding
I'll I'll uh I'll leave that to the next
time thanks thank you Mr secretary for
the next question guil tamry with
Channel
13 Mr secretary thank you for the
opportunity guil tamari Channel 13 it
seems to be that the entire Biden
Doctrine Visa Israel a future
Palestinian state